 # SDCGDCP
**Abstract**

   Drug combination synergy is crucial in pharmacology, as it can enhance disease treatment efficacy or reduce drug resistance when administered in combination. Accurate prediction of drug combination synergy is vital for optimizing therapeutic regimens and improving treatment effectiveness. Existing computational methods primarily rely on drug sequence and structural features, making them difficult to capture complex network relationships and global information—especially lacking the ability to perform cross-modal fusion. In this study, we proposed a method called SDCGDCP for predicting drug combination synergy. It processed drug molecular structures (graph structures and molecular fingerprints), target biological activity information and integrated cell line whole-genome expression profiles to construct multi-level combined node representations. A drug-cell line pair network was accordingly generated. SDCGDCP updated node and edge representations via a GatedGCN module and derived five types of structural encodings (centrality, spatial, edge, Laplacian positional and node-similarity encodings), after which the graph language model Graphormer is employed to capture long-range node interactions. Finally, drug combination synergy was predicted using an MLP and SoftMax classifier. Extensive evaluations shown that SDCGDCP outperforms other state-of-the-art methods on the DrugCombDB dataset, achieving an AUROC of 0.923 and AUPRC of 0.883. Ablation experiments validate the effectiveness of each feature and encoding module. Meanwhile, we conducted case analyses on the predicted drug combination synergies. The results are supported by evidence from several pharmaceutical studies. This highlights potential of SDCGDCP in enhancing drug synergy prediction and optimizing combination therapies.

Once the paper is accepted in October, the model code will be made public.
